Skeleton of a Java Program

The basic syntax of a java program is as follows:

package packageName
class ClassName
{
    access_specifier return type functionName(Parameters)
    {
        //Java Code that does stuff
    }
}

Java requires some packages to run a program and one of those package is the java.lang package
The java.lang package is a mandatory package that is required to run a program.
The compiler will add this automatically even if the developer does not.

The main method is the starting type of the program and it is always void as this is the only function that never returns a value to another function
In a print statement in Java, we write a class, an object and a function to print something
That statement is: System.out.println();
System is a class that calls out which is an object and finally println() is a function.
A key point to note is that when you declare a class as public, the filename should match the name of the class otherwise an error will arise that will not let your program to execute


Reading Input from keyboard:

To read input from keyboard we need to include the Scanner class
To use the scanner class, we need to first import the util package and then create an object for the Scanner Class
Syntax: Scanner variable = new Scanner(System.in);
The System.in is the code needed to read input from the keyboard.

Primitive data types in Java:

1)byte    Size: 1
2)short   Size: 2
3)int     Size: 4
4)long    Size: 8
5)float   Size: 4
6)double  Size: 8
7)char    Size: 2
8)boolean

All Integer based datatypes are signed datatype.
In a byte, there are 8 bits and one of those bits is reserved for the sign where:
Zero(0) indicates Positive and One(1) indicates Negative
Effectively, the largest positive number you can store in a byte is 127
Negative numbers are stored in the form of 2's compliment
You cannot assign a double value into a float datatype

Variables

A variable is a container that stores data for a program. It also follows a syntax:
Syntax: Data_type name = value;
The space taken by a variable depends on the datatype
Now to write a variable, a developer must follow certain rules:
1) Variables are case sensitive, so be careful on what you name a variable
2) Contains Alphabets, Numbers or even the Dollar sign ($), it can even start from an Alphabet or the Dollar sign
3) Name should not be a keyword
4) Should not be a class name if class is also in use
5) There are no limits on the length of a name
6) Best practice for multi-worded variables is to use Camel Casing

Literals are the static values that are written in a program this usually acts as a placeholder for the value to be updated later

Java is a compiled as well as interpreted language

Architecture of JVM:
The basic memory breakup for a Java program is:
Level 1(Method Area): The program
Level 2(The Stack): The stack that stores the defined variables and knows the total amount of static memory required
Level 3(Heap): The dynamic memory allocation takes place here, if there are objects created at run-time of the program.
The class that gets loaded also creates an object that gets stored in the Heap area. This happens due to reflection API

You may ask:
How does a class gets stored in the memory?
A Java program is loaded into the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) through a dynamic process called class loading, which occurs in three main stages: Loading, Linking, and Initialization.
This process is managed by the ClassLoader Subsystem, which finds and reads compiled .class files (bytecode) into memory only when they are needed.

There are 3 types of ClassLoaders:
1)Bootstrap Class Loader: Loads all of the essential packages and libraries into the memory for executing a Java Program
2)Extension Class Loader: Loads the classes that are used by JVM in runtime
3)Application Class Loader: Loads all the other classes created by the developer.

There are 3 processes that take place in the Linking stage of ClassLoaders:
1)Verify: Checks if the byte code is a Java Byte Code or not
2)Prepare: Allocating stack memory for our static variables in our classes
3)Resolve: Writing the reference of a function or any other component that gets called via main method at runtime

The Initialization phase initializes the static variables in our program

When the class is loaded into JVM via ClassLoader, it only stores the methods.
Once the code is loaded into the memory, JVM runs the JIT compiler and Interpreter to turn that compiled source code into the byte code
Note: Java has its own garbage collector which does not need any changes to be made in the default configuration. It automatically collects garbage memory and dumps them during program execution.
Which is also why, Java does not have pointers, that store references that can change the actual value of an object as we had in C

Bit Merging and Bit Masking:

In a byte, there are 8 bits these bits are binary 0's and 1's. In a scenario where we want to make the 0 bit as 1, we use merging:
a = 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0     In Decimal: a = 0
b = 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0     In Decimal: b = 8
The developer needs to store the decimal value of 8 in a and this is performed by the Bitwise OR operation
The logic then becomes: a = a|b ['|' stands for bitwise OR]
This process is called Bit Merging

The same process is repeated for Bit Masking, the only change being instead of using the bitwise OR operation it uses the bitwise AND operation
This process is used when the developer wants to check a specific binary value in a binary string

A byte can store 8 bits and most decimal numbers need only 1 nibble (1 nibble = 4 bits)
So, in theory we can store 2 decimal numbers in just 1 byte, and in practice you can also perform the same
To store the first value you can use Bit Merging
Then to add the second number, first perform the left shift operation on the variable you want to add to
And then perform merging again.
Example:
a = 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
b = 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1
Merge:  a = 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1

b = 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1
Perform Left Shift on b:    b = 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0
Merge a and b again
a = 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1
b = 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0
Merge:  a = 1 0 0 1     0 1 0 1
               9     |      5       In Decimal the left side of the byte is 9 and the right side is 5

Note: i) Bitwise operators may not be applied to float or double.
      ii) The >>> operator shift right with zero fill/sign bit.